this video is brought to you by
Squarespace when it comes to websites
online stores etc there's no place to
build a beautiful online presence like
Squarespace after three videos and
probably a bunch of mentions I can
safely say spongebob has not only been a
big part of this channel but my life as
well I think it's a really creative show
and it never missed the mark but there's
one episode in particular that I think
about maybe once a week that episode is
squid Ville now when I caught squid
Ville at a young age my reaction was
always Squidward said and that still
holds till this day I think squid Ville
in a very creative way is addressing not
only depression but existentialism as
well let's run through it the episode
starts with SpongeBob and Patrick
playing with reef blowers what starts as
a fun way to pass time quickly turns
into something more than that something
that annoys Squidward they take the
lines out of SpongeBob's house the nose
mouth and eventually eyes out of
Squidward's they turned what used to be
a face a personality a soul into nothing
more than a rock trapping squid in this
place of nothingness after digging
himself out from underground he
confronts SpongeBob and Patrick
criticizing them for using the reef
blowers and basically wishing he didn't
have to live with them in this attitude
of course shortly after ATV comes out of
the sky and grants Squidward an
opportunity to escape to a land called
squid Ville where he is surrounded by
only those of his kind unsurprisingly he
decides to take the trip after passing a
pretty simple test on his physical
appearance he's welcomed with the same
negative energy he's had his whole life
by another civilian and as a result he
feels amazing now the following montage
is where things get interesting
Squidward goes about some of his
favorite activities like biking buying
canned bread interpretive dance and
clarinet playing in simpler terms its
Squidward in his ideal society there
isn't room for error
but as this life continues Squidward
finds himself known to these pleasures
after doing them every day they start to
mean less to him eventually he grows
depressed and I think this is where the
show gets really interesting in less
than a minute the writers are able to
capture a depressing part of life that
everyone has to deal with we as people
similar to Squidward have this desire
for pleasure slash love or happiness but
this episode argues happiness can't
exist on its own by that I mean even if
Squidward eliminates everything that
brings some anger and sadness that
feeling of dread is inevitable which in
my opinion applies to all of us what is
happiness if not a direct response to
sadness this episode isn't just stating
the fact that Squidward is sad it's
exploring a definition for happiness
satisfaction in general especially to
someone dealing with depression it
criticizes this ideology that bringing
yourself satisfaction is surrounding
yourself in a setting fit just for you I
think we've all been in that place where
we say if only blank was blank then
everything would be fine but life is an
endless search for that next thing in
this episode is recognizing that even
with these qualities Squidward is still
sad so in a sense he's trapped and can
never find that full happiness but
that's not on him it still applies to
everyone us included much of this can be
supported by looking at the ancient
hedonist very different from modern
hedonists who look at happiness not as a
state of being but as something made up
of decisions we make they find happiness
in smaller moments the way say SpongeBob
and Patrick do it's a way of thinking
that spongebob clearly lives by even at
something as debatably suffering his
work he finds moments of relief and
enjoyment in pretty much every episode
Squidward who clearly strives for a
state of happiness is only brought down
further into his state of depression
because he relies on his shortcomings in
life around him as the excuse for not
being happy but in reality he's always
searching for a constant state of
happiness that is unattainable let's
think hypothetically say you hate your
job you have bad allergies you want a
partner and I don't know it's too cold
where you live so maybe you magically
lose your allergies you find yourself a
perfect partner you move to your dream
place and you get that job as a
storyboard artist because goddamn that
sounds like a pretty good gig you have
literally everything so do you just
never feel sad anymore most likely
you're still gonna find error in your
everyday life there's going to be
something holding you back from being
100% happy sitting on the couch watching
a movie gave you pleasure because of the
events leading up to it because that
activity in itself isn't an act of
relief it only feels like a relief when
put in the context of say sadness this
is a good time to cite the wheel of
fortune no not the popular game show
hosted by Pat Sajak I'm talking about a
concept an ancient philosophy that means
the unpredictable nature of fate in this
scenario it's safe to assume happiness
is attached to this wheel Boethius a
philosopher from the 6th century argues
that the wheel continues to spin and
that while we may feel the fortune of
happiness it isn't true happiness
because of happiness is attached to the
wheel our sadnesses as well true
happiness is found in eternal ideas like
finding God attaching ourselves to
higher knowledge that's different than
the feeling of being happy that you can
get from being with a loved one or say
indulging and pleasures you'd find in
squid Ville so not much later in this
episode Squidward accepts this
depression finding himself alone in the
park he is then given another
opportunity when a reef-blower is found
on a 10
after some hesitations goodra takes the
reef-blower and begins to play with it
using it against others he causes
disruption and annoys those around him
all for his own pleasure how this ties
into earlier is that this society is
essentially a mirror of who he is this
is the show's way of showing Squidward
battling against himself the pleasure
and genuine fresh happiness that he
feels in the moment is nothing but a
reaction to his own actions it's a
feeling that only exists because of the
bed now notice how I said feeling rather
than a way of being Squidward is aware
of the harsh consequences that come from
these actions like being kicked out of
the town but in one of the few times in
this entire series Squidward thinks
short-term on what makes him happy
rather than striving to reach a state of
constant happiness he appreciates the
happy moments that he can get but is
this really a happy ending I'd argue
it's not I can imagine it being
impossible for Squidward to find joy and
excitement out of most things after this
I mean how would it feel to know
anything good in your life that brings
you happiness will eventually feel numb
and bring you sadness how depressing is
it to feel unenthused about the only
things that brought you joy and the only
way to find happiness is to disrupt
things and the funny thing is it's not
like squid is alone this is all of us
we're all Squidward in a certain sense
if put into this hypothetical situation
squid Ville is one of my favorite
episodes of TV out there it's impressive
how much it does in only 12 minutes
especially with the way the world
currently is I think it's moments like
these that remind you of some of the
simpler ways of finding happiness in
life like say watching a YouTube video
on squid viler playing with a
reef-blower so I'll end with this just
remember that spongebob is a great show
achieving a constant state of happiness
and fulfillment is unachievable and what
was the last thing oh yeah this video
was sponsored by Squarespace you're
probably self isolating right now and if
you're not you should and if you're
bored maybe you should consider making a
website and why not do so with
Squarespace
Squarespace is a place where you can go
to make an online website to build your
brand progress your business do what you
need to do they have a wide selection of
award-winning designer templates that
look modern sleek sexy basically
whatever you want it to look like if
you're worried like oh I'm not that
great at making websites guess what they
have 24-hour customer service to help
you through the entire process and the
best part about it all is that if you go
to Squarespace comm slash carsten my
name you can get 10% off of your first
purchase now is a great time to take
that step forward and why not do so with
Squarespace thanks again so much for
watching make sure to check out
Squarespace and I'll see you guys in the
next one
[Music]